iconv_mime_encode -- Composes a MIME header field

  string iconv_mime_encode(string field_name, string field_value [, array preferences])~

Composes and returns a string that represents a valid MIME header field, which
looks like the following:

  Subject: =?ISO-8859-1?Q?Pr=FCfung_f=FCr?= Entwerfen von einer MIME kopfzeile

In the above example, "Subject" is the field name and the portion that begins
with "=?ISO-8859-1?..." is the field value.

You can control the behaviour of |iconv_mime_encode| by specifying an
associative array that contains configuration items to the optional third
parameter {preferences}. The items supported by |iconv_mime_encode| are
listed below. Note that item names are treated case-sensitive. Configuration
items supported by |iconv_mime_encode| Item Type Description Default value
Example scheme boolean Specifies the method to encode a field value by. The
value of this item may be either "B" or "Q", where "B" stands for base64
encoding scheme and "Q" stands for quoted-printable encoding scheme. B B
input-charset string Specifies the character set in which the first parameter
{field_name} and the second parameter {field_value} are presented. If not
given, |iconv_mime_encode| assumes those parameters are presented to it in
the iconv.internal_charset ini setting. iconv.internal_charset ISO-8859-1
output-charset string Specifies the character set to use to compose the MIME
header. If not given, the same value as input-charset will be used. the same
value as input-charset UTF-8 line-length integer Specifies the maximum length
of the header lines. The resulting header is "folded" to a set of multiple
lines in case the resulting header field would be longer than the value of
this parameter, according to RFC2822 - Internet Message Format. If not given,
the length will be limited to 76 characters. 76 996 line-break-chars string
Specifies the sequence of characters to append to each line as an end-of-line
sign when "folding" is performed on a long header field. If not given, this
defaults to "\r\n" (CR LF). Note that this parameter is always treated as an
ASCII string regardless of the value of input-charset. \r\n \n

|iconv_mime_encode| example:

<?php >
  $preferences = array(
      "input-charset" => "ISO-8859-1",
      "output-charset" => "UTF-8",
      "line-length" => 76,
      "line-break-chars" => "\n"
  );
  $preferences["scheme"] = "Q";
  // This yields "Subject: =?UTF-8?Q?Pr=C3=BCfung_Pr=C3=BCfung?="
  echo iconv_mime_encode("Subject", "Prüfung Prüfung", $preferences);
  
  $preferences["scheme"] = "B";
  // This yields "Subject: =?UTF-8?B?UHLDvGZ1bmcgUHLDvGZ1bmc=?="
  echo iconv_mime_encode("Subject", "Prüfung Prüfung", $preferences);
?>

See also |imap_binary|, |mb_encode_mimeheader| and |imap_8bit|.

vim:ft=help:
