ldap_set_option -- Set the value of the given option

  bool ldap_set_option(resource link_identifier, int option, mixed newval)~

Sets the value of the specified option to be {newval}. Returns TRUE on success
or FALSE on failure. on error.

The parameter {option} can be one of: LDAP_OPT_DEREF, LDAP_OPT_SIZELIMIT,
LDAP_OPT_TIMELIMIT, LDAP_OPT_PROTOCOL_VERSION, LDAP_OPT_ERROR_NUMBER,
LDAP_OPT_REFERRALS, LDAP_OPT_RESTART, LDAP_OPT_HOST_NAME,
LDAP_OPT_ERROR_STRING, LDAP_OPT_MATCHED_DN, LDAP_OPT_SERVER_CONTROLS,
LDAP_OPT_CLIENT_CONTROLS. Here's a brief description, see
draft-ietf-ldapext-ldap-c-api-xx.txt for details.

The options LDAP_OPT_DEREF, LDAP_OPT_SIZELIMIT, LDAP_OPT_TIMELIMIT,
LDAP_OPT_PROTOCOL_VERSION and LDAP_OPT_ERROR_NUMBER have integer value,
LDAP_OPT_REFERRALS and LDAP_OPT_RESTART have boolean value, and the options
LDAP_OPT_HOST_NAME, LDAP_OPT_ERROR_STRING and LDAP_OPT_MATCHED_DN have string
value. The first example illustrates their use. The options
LDAP_OPT_SERVER_CONTROLS and LDAP_OPT_CLIENT_CONTROLS require a list of
controls, this means that the value must be an array of controls. A control
consists of an oid identifying the control, an optional value, and an
optional flag for criticality. In PHP a control is given by an array
containing an element with the key oid and string value, and two optional
elements. The optional elements are key value with string value and key
iscritical with boolean value. iscritical defaults to FALSE if not supplied.
See also the second example below.

This function is only available when using OpenLDAP 2.x.x OR Netscape
Directory SDK x.x, and was added in PHP 4.0.4.

Set protocol version

<?php >
  // $ds is a valid link identifier for a directory server
  if (ldap_set_option($ds, LDAP_OPT_PROTOCOL_VERSION, 3)) {
      echo "Using LDAPv3";
  } else {
      echo "Failed to set protocol version to 3";
  }
?>

Set server controls

<?php >
  // $ds is a valid link identifier for a directory server
  // control with no value
  $ctrl1 = array("oid" => "1.2.752.58.10.1", "iscritical" => true);
  // iscritical defaults to FALSE
  $ctrl2 = array("oid" => "1.2.752.58.1.10", "value" => "magic");
  // try to set both controls
  if (!ldap_set_option($ds, LDAP_OPT_SERVER_CONTROLS, array($ctrl1, $ctrl2)))
      echo "Failed to set server controls";
?>

See also |ldap_get_option|.

vim:ft=help:
