mysql_connect -- Open a connection to a MySQL Server

  resource mysql_connect([string server [, string username [, string password [, bool new_link [, int client_flags]]]]])~

Opens or reuses a connection to a MySQL server.

{server} The MySQL server. It can also include a port number. e.g.
"hostname:port" or a path to a local socket e.g. ":/path/to/socket" for the
localhost.

If the PHP directive mysql.default_host is undefined (default), then the
default value is 'localhost:3306'

{username} The username. Default value is the name of the user that owns the
server process.

{password} The password. Default value is an empty password.

{new_link} If a second call is made to |mysql_connect| with the same
arguments, no new link will be established, but instead, the link identifier
of the already opened link will be returned. The {new_link} parameter
modifies this behavior and makes |mysql_connect| always open a new link, even
if |mysql_connect| was called before with the same parameters.

{client_flags} The {client_flags} parameter can be a combination of the
following constants: MYSQL_CLIENT_COMPRESS, MYSQL_CLIENT_IGNORE_SPACE or
MYSQL_CLIENT_INTERACTIVE.

Returns a MySQL link identifier on success, or FALSE on failure.

Version Description 4.3.0 Added the {client_flags} parameter. 4.2.0 Added the
{new_link} parameter. 3.0.10 Added support for ":/path/to/socket" with
{server}. 3.0.0 Added support for ":port" with {server}.

|mysql_connect| example

<?php >
  $link = mysql_connect('localhost', 'mysql_user', 'mysql_password');
  if (!$link) {
      die('Could not connect: ' . mysql_error());
  }
  echo 'Connected successfully';
  mysql_close($link);
?>

Whenever you specify "localhost" or "localhost:port" as server, the MySQL
client library will override this and try to connect to a local socket (named
pipe on Windows). If you want to use TCP/IP, use "127.0.0.1" instead of
"localhost". If the MySQL client library tries to connect to the wrong local
socket, you should set the correct path as mysql.default_host in your PHP
configuration and leave the server field blank.

The link to the server will be closed as soon as the execution of the script
ends, unless it's closed earlier by explicitly calling |mysql_close|.

You can suppress the error message on failure by prepending a @ to the
function name.

|mysql_pconnect| |mysql_close|

vim:ft=help:
