sesam_fetch_result -- Return all or part of a query result

  mixed sesam_fetch_result(string result_id [, int max_rows])~

Returns a mixed array with the query result entries, optionally limited to a
maximum of {max_rows} rows. Note that both row and column indexes are
zero-based. Mixed result set returned by |sesam_fetch_result| Array Element
Contents int $arr["count"] number of columns in result set (or zero if this
was an "immediate" query) int $arr["rows"] number of rows in result set
(between zero and {max_rows}) bool $arr["truncated"] TRUE if the number of
rows was at least {max_rows}, FALSE otherwise. Note that even when this is
TRUE, the next |sesam_fetch_result| call may return zero rows because there
are no more result entries. mixed $arr[col][row] result data for all the
fields at row(row) and column(col), (where the integer index row is between 0
and $arr["rows"]-1, and col is between 0 and $arr["count"]-1). Fields may be
empty, so you must check for the existence of a field by using the php
|isset| function. The type of the returned fields depend on the respective
SQL type declared for its column (see SESAM overview for the conversions
applied). SESAM "multiple fields" are "inlined" and treated like a sequence
of columns. Note that the amount of memory used up by a large query may be
gigantic. Use the {max_rows} parameter to limit the maximum number of rows
returned, unless you are absolutely sure that your result will not use up all
available memory.

See also: |sesam_fetch_row|, and |sesam_field_array| to check for "multiple
fields". See the description of the |sesam_query| function for a complete
example using |sesam_fetch_result|.

vim:ft=help:
