sesam_field_array -- Return meta information about individual columns in a
result

  array sesam_field_array(string result_id)~

{result_id} is a valid result id returned by |sesam_query|.

Returns a mixed associative/indexed array with meta information (column name,
type, precision, ...) about individual columns of the result after the query
associated with {result_id}.

Mixed result set returned by |sesam_field_array| Array Element Contents int
$arr["count"] Total number of columns in result set (or zero if this was an
"immediate" query). SESAM "multiple fields" are "inlined" and treated like
the respective number of columns. string $arr[col]["name"] column name for
column(col), where col is between 0 and $arr["count"]-1. The returned value
can be the empty string (for dynamically computed columns). SESAM "multiple
fields" are "inlined" and treated like the respective number of columns, each
with the same column name. string $arr[col]["count"] The "count" attribute
describes the repetition factor when the column has been declared as a
"multiple field". Usually, the "count" attribute is 1. The first column of a
"multiple field" column however contains the number of repetitions (the
second and following column of the "multiple field" contain a "count"
attribute of 1). This can be used to detect "multiple fields" in the result
set. See the example shown in the |sesam_query| description for a sample use
of the "count" attribute. string $arr[col]["type"] PHP variable type of the
data for column(col), where col is between 0 and $arr["count"]-1. The
returned value can be one of integer

float

string

depending on the SQL type of the result. SESAM "multiple fields" are "inlined"
and treated like the respective number of columns, each with the same PHP
type. string $arr[col]["sqltype"] SQL variable type of the column data for
column(col), where col is between 0 and $arr["count"]-1. The returned value
can be one of "CHARACTER"

"VARCHAR"

"NUMERIC"

"DECIMAL"

"INTEGER"

"SMALLINT"

"FLOAT"

"REAL"

"DOUBLE"

"DATE"

"TIME"

"TIMESTAMP"

describing the SQL type of the result. SESAM "multiple fields" are "inlined"
and treated like the respective number of columns, each with the same SQL
type. string $arr[col]["length"] The SQL "length" attribute of the SQL
variable in column(col), where col is between 0 and $arr["count"]-1. The
"length" attribute is used with "CHARACTER" and "VARCHAR" SQL types to
specify the (maximum) length of the string variable. SESAM "multiple fields"
are "inlined" and treated like the respective number of columns, each with
the same length attribute. string $arr[col]["precision"] The "precision"
attribute of the SQL variable in column(col), where col is between 0 and
$arr["count"]-1. The "precision" attribute is used with numeric and time data
types. SESAM "multiple fields" are "inlined" and treated like the respective
number of columns, each with the same precision attribute. string
$arr[col]["scale"] The "scale" attribute of the SQL variable in column(col),
where col is between 0 and $arr["count"]-1. The "scale" attribute is used
with numeric data types. SESAM "multiple fields" are "inlined" and treated
like the respective number of columns, each with the same scale attribute.

See also |sesam_query| for an example of the |sesam_field_array| use.

vim:ft=help:
